NIST 800-53 
Interview Questions
Target - IT Team 

3.7  IA - Identification and Authentication 

IA-1 
What policies and procedures does your organization use to verify identity and to ensure secure authentication?

IA-2
How do you make sure only the right users access your systems and networks?

IA-3 
How do you make sure each device or system has a special way to be recognized on the network?

IA-4
Who is in charge of assigning usernames/hostnames to people or devices? How are they created ?

What criteria or process do you use to ensure each username/hostname is unique?

How do you ensure each ID is assigned to the correct individual/group/device?

Is there a policy to prevent reusing ID’s? If so, how long are ID’s left inactive before being reused?

IA-5
How do you initially confirm one's identity before giving them a password or key?

What process do you follow to create passwords/keys when first issued? And how do you ensure passwords are strong enough for their specific purpose?

What do you do when someone loses or breaks their password/key? What is the process for revoking passwords/key?

Do you change default credentials/settings before using them? How do you make sure this happens and how do you let people know?

What steps do people and devices need to follow to keep passwords or keys safe?

How often do you require people to change their authenticators, and how do you make them do it?

What happens to shared passwords or keys when the people in a group or role change?

IA-7
How do devices/systems in your organization prove to the correct authority that they are trusted and allowed to communicate or use the system securely? 

IA-8
What is the process for handling non-organizational users?

IA-9
Are there any high-priority devices, systems, applications that allow anonymous or shared account access? Why are they not uniquely identified/verified?

IA-10
Do you have any extra authentication or re-authentication methods based on specific factors? 

IA-11
At what points are users required to re-authenticate, and how is this enforced from a technical standpoint?

IA-12
How do we verify we are giving credentials to the right person?

